Date: Tuesday, February 11, 2025

# What I learned today:

## DSA.
* Heap/Priority Queue

Problems done:
* 703. Kth Largest Element in a Stream
* 1046. Last Stone Weight
* 973. K Closest Points to Origin -> !Use of heapq.heappushpop()ยก
* 215. Kth Largest Element in an Array

##  Object oriented design
The metrics used to evaluate design complexity are coupling and cohesion. Coupling focuses on complexity between a module and other modules. While cohesion focuses on complexity within a module.

Coupling for a module captures the complexity of connecting the module to other modules. If the module is highly reliant on other modules, we would say this module is tightly coupled to others. On the other hand, if the module finds it easy to connect to other modules, this module is loosely coupled to others. When evaluating the coupling of a module, we need to consider degree, ease, and flexibility.

* Degree is the number of connections between the module and others. With coupling, we want to keep the degree small.
* Ease is how obvious are the connections between the module and others. With coupling, you want the connections to be easy to make without needing to understand the implementations of the other modules.
* Flexibility is how interchangeable the other modules are for this module. With coupling, you want the other modules easily replaceable for something better in the future.

Cohesion represents the clarity of the responsibilities of a module. If the module performs one task or has a clear purpose, the module has high cohesion. On the other hand, if the purpose is unclear, the module has low cohesion.

Information hiding allows modules of our system to give other the minimum amount of information needed to use them correctly and "hide" everything else. Information hiding is often associated with encapsulation. We use encapsulation to bundle attributes and behaviours into their appropiate class, and expose an interface to provide access. 
We can also apply information hiding through access modifiers.