Date: Wednesday, February 12, 2025

# What I learned today:

## DSA

- Hasing
- Graphs

Problems done:
* 217 . Contains Duplicate
* 1 . Two Sum -> Repeat with hashmap
* 146 . LRU Cache
* 200 . Number of Islands
* 695 . Max Area of Island

## Backend

### APIs
Autentication
JWT (JSON Web Token) is an open standart used to share secury information between two parties. JWT differ from other web tokens in that they contain a set of claims. What these claims are depends on the use case at hand. A JWT is a string made up of three parts, separated by dots, and serialized using base64.

OAuth is not an API or service: it's an open standard for authorization and anyone can implement it. More specifically, OAuth is a standard that apps can use to provide client applications with "secure delegated access".

Token-based authentication is a protocol wich allows users to verify their identity, and in return receive a unique acess token. Auth tokens work like a stamped ticked. The user retain access as long as the token remains valid.

Caching
Caching is a technique used in computing to store and retrieve frequently accessed data quickly, reducing the need to fetch it from the original, slower source repeatedly. It involves keeping a copy of data in a location that's faster to access than its primary storage.

* Server-side caching: storing frequently accessed data in memory on the server, reducing the need for repeated data retireval or computation.
* Client-side caching; web browsers or applications store data locally on the user's device to imrpove performance and reduce server load. It involves saving copies of web pages, images, scripts, and other resources on the client's system for faster access on subsequent visits.

A content delivery network (CND) service aims to provide high availability and performance improvements of websites. This is achieved with fast delivery of website assets and content typically via geographically closer endpoints to the client requests.
 * Amazon CloudFront
 * Akamai
 * Cloudfare
 * Fastly

Redis
Redis is an open-source, in-memory data structure store known for its speed and versatility. It supports various data types and provides functionalities such as caching ,session management, real-time analytics, and message brokering. It supports persistence options to save data to disk, replication for high availability, and clustering for horizontal scaling. Redis operates as a key-value store, allowing for rapid read and write operations.

### Todo List API
The goal is to create a restful api that allows the user to manage their todo list.

I have searched on the internet and the most mentioned libraries are fastAPI, uvicorn, sqlalchemy, pyqwt y passlib/bcrypt.

#### FastAPI
FastAPI is a python framework design to build fast, efficient and secure APIs. Its main advantages are:
* Speed; it is extremely fast, almost as fast as Node.js with Express.
* Simplicity: its syntax is clear and easy to understand.
* Automatic validation: use Pydantic to validate data without writing extra code.
* Native async: Supports async/away, wich improves efficiency in APIs with many requests.
* Automatic documentation: generate documentation in Swagger and Reddoc effortlessly.

FastAPI is a framework for building APIs, but it doesn't include a web server to run them. That's why we need Uvicorn.
Uvicorn is a ASGI (Asynchronous Server Gateway Interface) server that runs asynchronous web apps like FastAP. What Uvicorn does:
1. Listen to HTTP requests from clients
2. Call the FastAPI application to procress them.
3. Send the response back to the client.

Without Uvicorn, FastAPI wouldn't be able to serve requests.

#### ¿Qué es ASGI? ¿En qué se diferencia de WSGI?
Before ASGI there was WSGI, which is the interface used by frameworks like Flask and Django to communicate with a server.
* WSGI only handles synchronous requests.
* ASGI allows handling asynchronous requests, such as websockets and background tasks.
FastAPI use ASGI, which is why you need a server like Uvicorn instead of Gunicorn.

#### How does FastAPI work?
##### What is a route in an API?
A route is an address in the URL that defines an specific action within the API.
For example:
* `https://miapi.com/users` -> Could return a list of users
* `https://miapi.com/users/5` -> Could return information of the user with id 5
* `https://miapi.com/login` -> Could manage the login

**How are they defined in FastAPI?**
In FastAPI, each route is define with a decorator(@app.get(), @app.post(), etc), that indicates:
* Wich HTTP method uses (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE)
* Wich URL responds ("/login", "/users/{user_id}")



