Date: Thursday, February 13, 2025

# What I learned today:
## API Proyect
### Uvicorn
Uvicorn is an ASGI (asynchronous server gateway interface) server that runs web applicattions efficiently and quickly.

#### Uvicorn internal process
1. Receives an HTTP request from the client.
2. Converts the request to an ASGI event.
3. Call the FastAPI app to process it.
4. Collects the response and sends it to the client.

#### Uvicorn essential commands 
* **Run a FastAPI app** ->  `uvicorn main:app --reload`
    * main:app -> main.py is the file, app is the instance of FastAPI.
    * --reload -> Enables automatic reloading code changes are made (development only).
* **Speficy port and address** -> `uvicorn main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 5000`
* **Run with multiple workers (production)** -> `gunicorn -w 4 -k uvicorn.workers.UvicornWorker main:app`
    * -w 4 -> Start 4 processes to handle more requests.
    * -k uvicorn.workers.UvicornWorker -> User Uvicorn inside Gunicorn.
* **Debugging** -> `uvicorn main:app --reload --log-level debug`
* **Run in the background** -> `nohup uvicorn main:app &`

### DataBase
FastAPI has no built-in database, so I'm going to use SQLite to start (We could change to PostgreSQL or MySQL later on).

SQLite is a lightweight embedded database engine. Unlike PostgreSQL or MySQL, we don't need a server. The .db file is the database.
* It's perfect for development and test.
* Fast for small apps.
* Supports standard SQL.

SQLAlchemy is an ORM (object-relational mapper). It allows us to interact with the database using Python instead of SQL.
* Cleaner code (we work with objects instead of SQL).
* Avoid SQL Injection. 
* Compatible with many databases (SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, etc.).

#### What is a data model?
A data model is a Python representation of a table in the database. In SQLAlchemy ORM, each data model is defined as a Python class.
It allow us to access tables as objects. For example:
```python
Users = Base.classes.users # Table "users"
Tasks = Base.classes.tasks # Table "tasks"
```

#### Configure the database
The first thing we have to do is configure the database. We define the url, create the session and create "Base" class for ORM models.
```python
DATABASE_URL = "sqlite:///./todo.db"

engine = create_engine(DATABASE_URL, connect_args={"check_same_thread": False})
SessionLocal = sessionmaker(autocommit=False, autoflush=False, bind=engine)
Base = declarative_base() # Base class for ORM models
```

#### Define the models
Then we create the models of the tables we need. In this case, for the todo list, it is user and task.
* In the user table we are going to save an id, email and password.
* In the task table we are going to save an id, title, description, whether it is complete or not and the owner of the task.


```python
class User(Base):
    __tablename__ = "users"

    id = Column(Integer, primary_key=True, index=True)
    email = Column(String, unique=True, index=True)
    password = Column(String)
```

## Nvidia Deepstream
Key plugins:
1. nvv4l2decoder: Decode video in hardware using NVDEC.
2. nvstreammux: Multiplexes multiple video streams into a single buffer optimized for efficient GPU processing.
3. nvinfer: Run inference with GPU-accelerated AI models (TensorRT, Triton Inference Server).
4. nvtracker: Tracks objects detected with algorithms such as SORT and DeepSORT.
5. nvdsosd: Renders graphic overlays (bounding boxes, text) on the processed frames.
6. nvvideoconvert: Perform efficient video format conversions (NV12, RGBA, etc.).
7. nvdsanalytics: Analyze video events, such as people counting, areas of interest, etc.
8. nvv4l2h264enc / nvv4l2h265enc: H.264/H.265 hardware encoders for efficient output.
9. nveglglessink: Display video on screen with OpenGL acceleration.

### Nvinfer
Nvinfer is the GStreamer plugin in Deepstream that runs inference with TensorRT on the GPU. It allows us to process video and detect/segment/clasify objects in real time with ai models.

#### How does it work?
1. Load an optimized AI model into TensorRT from an .engine or .onnx file.
2. It processes each frame and passes the data through the model.
3. Return detections with bounding boxes, labels and confidence.
4. Send the results to other plugins such as `nvdsosd` for visualization or `nvtracker` for tracking.

## DSA

- BFS

Problems done:
* 1091. Shortest Path in Binary Matrix