Date: Friday, February 14, 2025

# What I learned today:
## Unit testing
Unit testing is a technique in which individual parts of code (in this case, the database models and sql queries) are tested to ensure that they work correctly in isolation.

For the API, que want to make sure:
* The database is created correctly.
* We can insert and retrieve data without errors.
* Relationships between tables work well.

### What to we need?
To do testing we are going to use Pytest. The most used library to write and run tests.

1. We are going to use a database in memory for testing
2. We are going to create an engine and a test session

```python
TEST_DATABASE_URL = "sqlite:///:memory:"
engine = create_engine(TEST_DATABASE_URL, connect_args={"check_same_thread": False})
TestingSessionLocal = sessionmaker(autocommit=False, autoflush=False, bind=engine)
```
This creates a temp database in memory, which means it will reset at the end of every test.

### Decorators in pytest
The decorators in pytest allow you to modify the behavior of the tests. The most common are:
* `@pytest.mark.parametrize`: run a test with multiple values
* `@pytest.mark.skip`: Skip a test
* `@pytest.mark.xfail`: Mark a test that should fail

### Fixtures → Configuration before/after each test
Fixtures in pytest allow to prepare data before and after each test. For example:
```python
import pytest

@pytest.fixture
def user():
    return {"name": "Dave", "age": 30}

def test_user(user):
    assert user["name"] == "Dave"
    assert user["age"] == 30
```
The user is automatically passed to the test as an argument.

### How to run and analyze tests
* **Run all tests** -> `pytest`
* **Run all tests with details** -> `pytest -v`
* **Run only one file** --> `pytest tests/test_routes.py`
* **Run only one test inside a file** -> `pytests tests/test_routes::test_create_task`
* **View code coverage (which parts of the code have been tested):** -> `pytest --cov=src`

## DSA

* BFS

Problems done:
* 994.Rotting Oranges
